CODING TASK:1
a)
Here, we performed the BFS Search algorithm to find any of the shortest navigation routes for a line-following robot tasked with navigating a grid maze by following only white tiles.The BFS function (bfs_navigation) is called with the sample maze, start and end coordinates, and the all_directions parameter.The function returns a tuple indicating whether the endpoint is reachable and the navigation plan if reachable. Here, we need to give the user input. First it asks number of rows,then number of columns, then need to input each row (it asks row 0, row 1,..etc) at a time and here need to input elements(0 or 1) of row with spaces between them. After that need to enter start indices with space seperation between them, next need to enter end indices with space seperation between them, then need to enter the all_directions value as either True or False.
Then we will get output whether end point is reachable or not and the navigation plan.
b)
Here, we performed dijkstra algorithm to find the shortest path.Here,An example matrix is defined, representing a grid with weights for each cell.The matrix is then modified to replace zeros with infinity (representing impassable cells).A start and end node are defined.Dijkstra's algorithm is applied using the provided matrix, start, and end nodes.The shortest distance and path are printed. Here,maze is taken inside the code itself. We can change maze, start,end nodes and all_directions(True or false) here itself and run it.
